In this lesson we are going to consume the create
question API endpoint in our single page application.
So we already have the form in blade file so we will take
the code from this file and create a new component.
Then we're going to define a new route
in our routes.js file for that component.
All right let's head over to our terminal
and here let me create a new git branch
OK
now let's run level mix by saying: npm run watch
All right
first thing first
here in questions create.blade.php let's copy
everything inside this section content
and then let's go to js pages directory and
inside this directory let's create a new file
let's call it
create question page dot vue
add template
and paste the markup.
Let's firstly change this link to router link
the target it's gonna be question
so here we can bind the to attribute in pass object
specify name and set it to questions.
The class is gonna be btn btn outline secondary
and the text is gonna be "back to all questions"
and here we can cut this form
and instead we'll call question form
component which we will create shortly.
Let's add
script
here let's import the question form from
components question from dot vue.
In here let's register the question from
by saying  components question form.
All right let's actually create the question form.
Go to js components. In here
let's create a brand new file. Here it
is gonna be a question form dot vue.
Here
let's add template then inside here let's add a form
here when the form submitted we will call handle submit.
Now for the form element let's create that
from questions underscore form blade php.
Here
let's grab everything except this csrf.
back to question form and here inside the form
we can replace this with the previous markup.
Let's indent a little bit.
Here in our component value and
id attributes are no longer needed.
So let's get rid of that
instead we'll need to perform model
binding. So v-model equals title
now for the class let's move this logic into method
and we'll say error
class and we will pass in title.
We will need to perform class binding
by adding colon before the class.
Here
let's remove this if blade statement
and then here we can add v
If
errors
title at 0 index
so Laravel return validation error message in array.
That's why we call that like this way.
Now here we can replace this error message with errors
title zero. All right
let's do almost the same thing to the question
body. Let's remove this id this id attribute
bind the class attribute
and replace it content
and replace its content to error
class then pass in body.
Don't forget to add v-model equals body,
and we can remove this from here.
Here we can simply copy these lines
and paste here and then replace
from title to body.
Last let's change this php variable by simply remove the $ sign.
Okay
here we need to define three properties.
So
title,
body, then errors. So let's define them in data method.
Add script
then add data method
here we will return an object
in here
let's define title with empty string.
Also body with empty string and errors in object.
Here we're gonna have title with empty
array and body also in empty array.
Let's also defined handle submit. So let's add methods property
inside here let's define the handle submit
but we'll leave it empty for now.
Next let's define this error class method
this method will accept one argument in my case I call it column.
This method simply return an array. This
array will contain bootstrap form control
then it also contain is-invalid class if there
is an error message specific for this column.
Last, we need to define the button text.
We will place it in computed property
so here let's define computed
then in here let's define the button text
for now let's simply return static text "ask question".
Now let's open up router routes.js file.
Lets duplicate this import statement
and then let's rename to create question page.
In here let's map our component to a
route by adding a new route record.
Here we can simply duplicate the existing one. Let's
change the path to questions create. The component
is gonna be create question page.
And then let's give it a name question dot create. All
right now we have a new route record that mapped
the path to the create question question page component.
Let's called this route in question page. Let's open questions
page
and here let's replace this link to router link.
All right let's say save all this changes.
Back to the browser and reload
now if we hit this Ask Question button, here
we'll have a question from show up, awesome.
All right
the next thing that we need to do is
to make this form actually functional.